title:: Hacking Your Offensive Security Career by munrobotic.com
author:: munrobotic.com
full-title:: "Hacking Your Offensive Security Career"
url:: https://www.munrobotic.com/p/hacking-your-offensive-security-career
tags:: InfoSec

- ## Notes
	- Consistent personal development is not unique to our field; however, it is one of the most important elements. The motivation for learning needs to come from you and be supported by your employer and/or mentors.
	- The most important thing (in my humble opinion) for personal development is the ownership of it and the acceptance that you will need to drive this throughout your career.
	- It’s important to identify someone who’s going to be your coach, sponsor or cheerleader within your role. This is a really important step, that often happens organically when you demonstrate the right aptitude and attitude.
	- It’s important to demonstrate the right attitude and develop rapport with people first.
	- The first thing that differentiates the very top performers is their cadence and their ability to find and process new information. This normally takes the form of being well-organised and having a set-up that allows them to process new information (normally TTPs) fast.
	- Another common trait of high performers is openness to different approaches and new ways of working. It’s important that you try to stay technology agnostic in your approach.
	- Focus is also something that the best performers have in common, or in some cases what I’d call hyper-focus. This normally manifests as a deep understanding of a few areas.
	- Manage your learning proactively. Look for the gaps and fill them.
	- Read lots, read broadly.
	- Generally speaking, there are five dimensions to getting promoted within your organisation: capability (skills and performance), attitude, potential, promotion appetite of your employer (created by growth or attrition) and perception.